 Next topic

 Indentation - space, tab

 Indentation is the leading whitespace ( spaces and tabs ) before any statement in python.

Data types

Data types are the classification or categorization of data items.
Following are the standard or built-in data type of Python:

Numeric - int float ,complex
Sequence Type -string ,
list,
tuple - tuples cannot be modified after it is created. 

Boolean - Data type with one of the two built-in values, True or False. 

Set - Sets can be created by using the built-in set() function with an iterable object or a sequence by placing the sequence inside curly braces, separated by ‘comma’. 

Dictionary -Sets can be created by using the built-in set() function with an iterable object or a sequence by placing the sequence inside curly braces, separated by ‘comma’. 
       holds only single value as elements.


none -The None keyword is used to define a null variable or an object.

Basic operations

Arithmetic operators - +,-,*,/
comparison operators- True or False ,> < == !=
Logical Operators - AND OR NOT
Bitwise Operators - & | ~ >> <<
Assignment Operators - = += assigning value to variables
Identity Operators - is isnot

If else - The if…elif…else statement is used in Python for decision making.

		if test expression:
           Body of if
        elif test expression:
           Body of elif
        else: 
           Body of else
Loops

while loop

	while expression:
    statement(s)

for in Loop
   for iterator_var in sequence:
    statements(s)

Nested Loops
	for iterator_var in sequence:
    for iterator_var in sequence:
        statements(s)
        statements(s)

Break Statement: It brings control out of the loop

Pass Statement: We use pass statement to write empty loops. Pass is also used for empty control statement, function and classes.

Function -In Python a function is defined using the def keyword:

   Example
      def my_function():
         print("Hello from a function")

Class - Each class instance can have attributes attached to it for maintaining its state.
Object

OOP concepts

self argument -self is parameter in Instance Method and user can use another parameter name in place of it. 
	“self” keyword we can access the attributes and methods of the class in python. It binds the attributes with the given arguments.

Constructor, destructor

    The task of constructors is to initialize and assign values to the data members of the class when an object of the class is created. 

     In Python, destructors are not needed, because Python has a garbage collector that handles memory management automatically. 

File operations

f = open(filename, mode)
Where the following mode is supported:

r: open an existing file for a read operation.

w: open an existing file for a write operation. If the file already contains some data then it will be overridden.

a:  open an existing file for append operation. It won’t override existing data.

r+:  To read and write data into the file. The previous data in the file will not be deleted.

w+: To write and read data. It will override existing data.

a+: To append and read data from the file. It won’t override existing data.


