continueing topic - oop concepts
class
class Dog:
    pass

Object

obj = Dog()



Data hiding 

	In Python, we use double underscore (Or __) before the attributes name and those attributes will not be directly visible outside. 

One of the major advantages of Object Oriented Programming is re-use.

Class Method
The @classmethod decorator is a built-in function decorator that is an expression that gets evaluated after your function is defined. 

	class Dog:
    	pass

Static Method
A static method does not receive an implicit first argument. 

To define a class method in python, we use @classmethod decorator, and to define a static method we use @staticmethod decorator. 

Python Functions is a block of related statements designed to perform a computational, logical, or evaluative task. 

	def function_name(parameters):
    	"""docstring"""
    	statement(s)
   	    return expression

 We can create a  Python function using the def keyword.

 Types of Arguments

 A default argument is a parameter that assumes a default value if a value is not provided in the function call for that argument.

 Variable-length arguments
	In Python, we can pass a variable number of arguments to a function using special symbols. There are two special symbols:

	*args (Non-Keyword Arguments)
	**kwargs (Keyword Arguments)


Functional Programming in Python

 It uses expressions instead of statements. An expression is evaluated to produce a value whereas a statement is executed to assign variables.

 Concepts of Functional Programming

 Pure Functions:they always produce the same output for the same arguments irrespective of anything else. 

 Recursion: There are no “for” or “while” loop in functional languages. Iteration in functional languages is implemented through recursion.

 Variables are Immutable: In functional programming, we can’t modify a variable after it’s been initialized. We can create new variables – but we can’t modify existing variables.


 Lambda functions: In Python, anonymous function means that a function is without a name. 
 	lambda arguments: expression

 yield -If the body of a def contains yield, the function automatically becomes a generator function.

 Next topic

 Indentation - space, tab

 Indentation is the leading whitespace ( spaces and tabs ) before any statement in python.

Data types

Data types are the classification or categorization of data items.
Following are the standard or built-in data type of Python:

Numeric - int float ,complex
Sequence Type -string ,
list,
tuple - tuples cannot be modified after it is created. 

Boolean - Data type with one of the two built-in values, True or False. 

Set - Sets can be created by using the built-in set() function with an iterable object or a sequence by placing the sequence inside curly braces, separated by ‘comma’. 

Dictionary -Sets can be created by using the built-in set() function with an iterable object or a sequence by placing the sequence inside curly braces, separated by ‘comma’. 
       holds only single value as elements.


none -The None keyword is used to define a null variable or an object.

Basic operations

Arithmetic operators
comparison operators
Logical Operators
Bitwise Operators
Assignment Operators
Identity Operators

If else - The if…elif…else statement is used in Python for decision making.

		if test expression:
           Body of if
        elif test expression:
           Body of elif
        else: 
           Body of else
Loops

while loop

	while expression:
    statement(s)

for in Loop
   for iterator_var in sequence:
    statements(s)

Nested Loops
	for iterator_var in sequence:
    for iterator_var in sequence:
        statements(s)
        statements(s)

Break Statement: It brings control out of the loop

Pass Statement: We use pass statement to write empty loops. Pass is also used for empty control statement, function and classes.

Function

Class
Object

OOP concepts

self argument -self is parameter in Instance Method and user can use another parameter name in place of it. 
	“self” keyword we can access the attributes and methods of the class in python. It binds the attributes with the given arguments.

Constructor, destructor

File operations










